hi all
it is of course completely presumptuous
of me to dare to write and broadcast a
video entitled message to the christian
churches but i'm going to do it anyway
because i have something to say and
because that something needs to be said
i've been speaking to and watching and
listening to audiences all over the
western world for the past four years
in person and in virtual form and have
learned a few things in consequence
it all started in some sense with the
lectures i did on genesis in 2017.
my family and i took a risk
and rented out a theater in toronto on
the off chance that there might be an
audience
for what might be described as a
psychological approach to our ancient
stories
and
lo and behold and miracle of miracles
there was i completed 15 or so lectures
walking through the first biblical book
sold out the theater
and attracted surprisingly millions of
viewers christians
jews
muslims
and atheists
and most of the people who attended live
and the majority of those who watched
online
were young men
that is not a phenomenon that can be
easily accounted for
but let me try
now in the west
because of the weight of historical
guilt that is upon us
a variant of the sense of original sin
in a very real sense
and because of a very real attempt by
those possessed by what might be
described as unhelpful ideas to
weaponize that guilt
our young people face a demoralization
that is perhaps
unparalleled
this is particularly true of young men
although anything that devastates young
men
will eventually do the same to young
women
and that in this era of anti-natalism
and equally reprehensible nihilism
is precisely the point
when they are children
boys are hectored for their toy
preferences
which often include toy weapons such as
guns and their more boisterous playing
style as boys require active rough and
tumble play
even more than girls for whom it is also
a necessity
when in grade school
boys are admonished shamed and
controlled in a very similar manner by
those who think that play is unnecessary
particularly if it's competitive and who
value a docile harmless obedience above
all
shades of dolores umbridge
following all that because that's not
enough even when pursued assiduously for
total demoralization
is the inculcation of an extremely
damaging ideology which essentially
consists of three
accusations
number one
human culture particularly in the west
is best construed as an oppressive
patriarchy motivated by the desire
willingness and ability to use power
defined as the compulsion of others
against their will to attain what are
purely selfish and self-serving ends
this is true at every level of analysis
marriage is akin to slavery friendship
to exploitation political disagreement
to war
and business arrangements
to deception and theft
and this is true not only of the current
social arrangements that characterize
our culture particularly in the west but
also the fundamental reality of history
itself
accusation number two human activity
particularly that undertaken in the west
is fundamentally a planet despoiling
enterprise the human race is a threat to
the ecological utopia that existed
before us and that could hypothetically
exist in our absence
we might well be construed even as a
cancer that threatens the very viability
of the complex systems that make up the
ecosystem of the earth that shelters and
supports us
we are facing a malthusian catastrophe
of overpopulation and biosphere
degradation
and we have to place extreme limits on
our wants
even our needs so that survival itself
even in a much reduced form
can be guaranteed
accusation number three
the prime contributor both to the
tyranny that makes up the oppressive
patriarchy and structures all of our
social interactions past and present and
the unforgivable despoiling of our
beloved mother earth is damnable male
ambition competitive and dominating
power mad selfish exploitative raping
and pillaging
you might think that i'm overstating the
case
think again sunshine
we in the west are facing an all-out
assault
at the deepest levels on what that old
joker jacques derrida deemed the foul
logo-centric conceptual structure of
civilization itself
to take that apart
that's a society centered on the
encouraging adventurous masculine spirit
and that privileges that hated word of
all things the divine logos and what
should we worship and celebrate properly
other than that
deconstructionists the words of that
mass murderer karl marx
and it is precisely those young men who
are deeply conscientious capable of
guilt and regret who have come to
believe
in pain
that every deep impulse that moves them
out into the world for the adventure of
their life
even that impulse drawing them to women
is nothing but the manifestation of a
spirit that is essentially satanic in
nature
this is not only wrong theologically
morally psychologically practically and
scientifically
it is literally
anti-true it's not a mere misstatement
about the nature of reality a minor
conceptual error but something that
literally could not be farther from the
truth
and something that distant from the
truth comes from a place that cannot be
distinguished from hell
the christian church is there to remind
people
young men included and perhaps even
first and foremost
that they have a woman to find a garden
to walk in a family to nurture an ark to
build a land to conquer a ladder to
heaven to build
and the utter terrible catastrophe of
life to face
stalwartly in truth
devoted to love
and without fear
invite the young men back
say literally
to those young men
you are welcome here
if no one else wants what you have to
offer
we do
we want to call you to the highest
purpose of your life
we want your time and energy and effort
and your will and your good will
we want to work with you
to make things better
to produce life more abundant for you
and for your wife and children and for
your community and your country
and the world
and we have our problems
in the christian church we are more
abundant sometimes far too often corrupt
and sometimes deeply so we're outdated
as are all institutions with their roots
in the dead but still often wise past
so join us
we'll help fix you up
and you can help fix us up
and together we'll aim
up
and here is a message to those young men
skeptical about such things
what else do you have
you can abandon the churches in your
cynicism and disbelief you can say to
yourself narcissistically and
solipsistically the church does not
express what i believe properly
who cares what you believe
why is this about you
do you even want it to be about you
what if it was about others what if it
was about your duty to the past and to
the broader community that surrounds you
in the present
what if it was incumbent upon you and
vital to your health and willingness
even to live
to rescue your dead father from the
belly of the beast where he has always
resided
and to restore him to life
once again to the churches
protestant you're the worst at the
moment
catholic
orthodox
invite young men put up a billboard
say young men are welcome here
print some flyers and put them in a box
by the billboard signal the existence of
those flyers with an arrow with the
words more information about attending
here
tell those who have never been in a
church exactly what to do how to dress
when to show up who to contact
and most importantly
what they can do
ask more
not less of those you are inviting ask
more of them than anyone ever has
remind them who they are
in the deepest sense and help them
become that
your church is for god's sake
quit fighting for social justice quit
saving the bloody planet
attend to some souls
that's what you're supposed to do
that's your holy duty
do it
now
before it's too late
and the hour is nigh